We say that my experiences, even though I thought
it was very, very tough coming from where I came
from, was not as bad as a lot of the other guys had it.
And I think across the board, we had a lot of people
that flunked out just due to the fact that they
didn't have time to study or that emphasis. I think
I think that back on that, I was fortunate enough to
be class agent 10 years from my class. And I've
talked to Z and the guys, had many, many different
reunions and many reunions I was involved in. And
hearing all their war stories, they're either
telling a pretty high, wild type of freshman year.
But I think they probably did experience a lot more
than I did. Describe a typical class day. You got up
at what time? Well, the whistle jock would come in.
We could say 630, 6 to 630,
depending on what was happening. We did not do like
the Corps does now, get up in the morning and run.
There was none of this running. I think the only
running I ever did was intramurals. I ran cross
country for our outfit. But we would get up, and the
whistle jock, of course, would blow three times,
the third time being fallout, usually at 20
minutes tail, Maybe it was 10, 5, and then fallout.
I'm not sure whether it was 20 or 10 minute, the
first warning. But anyway, we would fall out, and
then we would be outside. We'd stand formation,
and the sophomores would check us over, and the
juniors would be then taking the formation, and
then the seniors would come out of the dorm a little
bit later. Lots of times we'd be marching back and
forth, but when the juniors took over, the first
sergeant usually would at that time give us some
type of instruction, and that's something in the
17 years that I worked in the commandant's office
is something I always felt that was very
important, but it had gone away, you know. It was a
good time for One of the biggest problems, I think,
in the Corps was lack of communications. And even
then, but even to this day. Now, you had classes
beginning at 8? 8 o'clock. And I remember we would
march to formation. But that year, I was in dorm
two, so we ate in Duncan. Again, we would have the
typical old days of you'd have a hot corner, a
freshman be on hot corner. We'd usually have two
sophomores on the table and a junior. In our case,
since we had so many freshmen, we might have a
senior which would turn, but we only had three
seniors in our outfit. When you figure you had
70-something freshmen and only three seniors,
that's unbelievable. And all three of them were in
vet school, so... One of them was married, so we
only had two in the dorm, so it was different than
the other units. Colonel Scott was our TAC
officer, referred to as the Goose. And I've had a
lot of experience with him. And I asked him one time
about, he was teaching math at Snook, and I asked
him to talk at our reunion. When he come to our mini
reunion, this was right before he passed away, and
it put me on a real guilt trip because he said, are
they going to throw those darn biscuits at me
again? Which was kind of customary. Once or twice a
year on the third Wildcat, everybody would chunk,
as we would say, a deal or a roll at the duty officer
or the bull, the military officer, usually a
reservist, sitting over at this little table with
the OD. the cadet officer of the day, who just
happened to disappear at that time for some
reason. Who gave the signal to actually do that?
How did y'all, how was that organized? It was
usually done without Corps staff knowing about
it. Would y'all have planned it? Oh, we would.
Somehow the word would have gotten around, today
we're going to do it, and in the mess hall the word
kind of got around to everybody on the third
Wildcat deal, and it just somebody started it and
then of course uh a corps commander whoever was
involved would uh or in charge that day would have
to go see now could the biscuit or the the bread have
anything on it or in it uh i'm from all the reports
i've heard some of them did but again i don't uh
remember. And that didn't happen but maybe once a
year. And then, of course, you pay the price.
Something's going to happen, you know. What
normally did happen? Well, you know, you would,
our, we might end up having an extra drill or we'd
have inspections. And that was one of the problems
about the A&M that first year. We drilled on
Saturday. which means if you were an Army unit, we
had an armory downstairs, or really what it was was
a dormitory room with bars on it and extra locks on
the door. And you would draw or get issued your
weapon, which in that case we had M1 rifles on
Friday night, and then you would have to clean them
and everything, and then your room would have to be
ready for inspection. And so I can always remember
in our dorm, Friday afternoon, at 4.30 was usually
the time to wax the halls, and that was freshman
privilege, and so we would wax all, but Saturday
we'd have the drill, and then we'd have to check our
weapons back in, and well, it was always some
junior that was called the armorer that would be
responsible for taking them in, and then you'd
have to No matter what you did, it had too much oil or
not enough oil. And they could always find a junior
that didn't have a car and wasn't going like
Houston for the weekend or something. Right now,
on this class day, you had classes almost all
morning. All morning, and then back, we'd have
formation at noon, we'd march the meals, we'd come
back, and then that evening, formation, where
we'd fall out for our retreat to take the flag down,
and then again march, so we marched three meals.
During that time, though, probably most
important time for most of the units because your
number one award was the General Moore. And
everybody thought they were going to win it
towards the end of the year, because everybody
seemed like the upperclassmen kept you pumped up.
Intramural points participation was also
something that was very, very important. And so we
would get out and we would practice, whether it was
in the fall, flag football, later basketball. We
had tennis. Ping pong counted just as much as
football did. So intramurals was a very, very big
part. And I remember that was of course something
that was, sports was very important to me. What
happened in intramurals to that awkward kid who
just wasn't very well coordinated? Lots of times
it, It was basically terrible and sinful, because
the upperclassmen would take the people that were
actually the better athletes. And those were ones
in particular, because winning was much more
important than participation. So what it meant,
it was kind of like the old days when you were
playing out on the yard. and you drew sticks or you
flipped a coin or whatever to who goes first, and
then I'll take you, you, you. And usually that kid
that's last is the kid that's last every time. In
this case, they would not be out there
participating unless they were just really
gung-ho. And so you usually came up with teams.
But intramurals was probably the one thing that
kept me at Texas A&M. I remember my sophomore year,
I became the athletic corporal and in junior year,
the athletic sergeant. And one little war story.
Richard Adams, who you know from Missouri, who is
the dean of vet school, was on the elevator one day
when I had been up having lunch with Mrs. Rutter
coming down because she's a very close family
friend with Sally's family and lived next to each
other. That's another story, but
Richard had just been upstairs and it had been
approved that he would be the dean of the vet
school, and he was a freshman in my outfit when I was
a junior. And one of the first things he talked to me
about was, did I know the year I left, and it took me
five years to graduate, but did I know the year i
left that they won class a football championship
now here is a gentleman a very distinguished
professor but when he saw me he identified with
intramurals and it was very very important to him
and so we had a lot of fun a little humor you asked for
some humor uh he told me the uh another uh another uh
underclassman who i was with the entire times mike
tatum who's also a professor out in the vet school
and he was a year behind me where Richard was two
years and and Richard said when he became the dean
he had walked the halls out there during the day
trying to find Tatum so he could get even with him
you know he wanted to have him do something now that
he was in charge but but intramurals to answer your
question during the day was very, very important.
And lots of times we could miss evening formation
and fall out late if we were participating, which
meant we didn't have to before. And maybe we'd have
to go to sophomores holes, as they call it, and
catch all kinds of hell for 30 minutes about our
brass, not being there 15 minutes before we went
outside and stood. So if you participate in
intramurals, you really got out of that. Now,
normally during the weekdays, about how much time
did you have unscheduled? if you were taking of
course 17 hours you would you would probably find
that you were in class let's just say you might have
two to three hours because most people took 17 or 18
hours you'd have two to three hours at the max that
you would have available during the day because
again it gets back to what you've taken i was taking
three courses that had labs so i was basically
involved somehow class all the time and then if you
come back to the room the one problem our outfit did
have was sophomores could come in your room and if
you're there all of a sudden we got to make this
spirit sign to hang up for the football game or we
got to do this or that so academics was not stressed
like I think It is today. Where did you and your
closest buddies spend any non-scheduled time
during the day? I could have gone to the library,
but I didn't. I think I worried more. more about
going all the way over to Northgate for cleaning.
And I lived in Durham, too, or I was going to get
something or just you don't know where the time
went. I know I did not take advantage of the library
time. I do know that my major problem was, as I
mentioned before, that I had no idea how to study,
period. And I could sit there for the three-hour CQ
at night and procrastinate the whole time of, I
don't know what I did, but I didn't know how to use my
time wisely. And then sometimes during the day it
would be a panic to get that paper done or whatever,
you know.
dining hall routine at your in your outfit was a
little less stringent than in some of the others i i
didn't think so at the time you know i thought
really uh even up until when i graduated we had
about as tough as everybody else but i have learned
over the years being associated with a m i was
fortunate to come back and teach ROTC 70, 74, and
nearly two years worked as assistant commandant
for Colonel Parsons. And you would visit with a lot
more of your classmates then, and then I retired
from the Army in 84 and came back, and then I was
class agent 10 years, so I was deeply involved.
with what goes on at all reunions when people get
back together and tell war stories of what they
did, you start picking up a pattern that, yeah, a
lot of these things happen to a lot of people, you
know. Did you all have cush questions? Oh, yes,
yes. What were some cush questions? I remember one
little story of which, and a cush question, of
course, being for dessert, and if you didn't
answer it, you didn't get dessert. But that wasn't
the bad, it was the, I think what bothered you was
the challenge from those sophomores getting to
you and getting over on you. And I remember being
asked a question one time, which class had the
stone in their ring? And I tried to find that
answer. And I finally, as I mentioned, this was the
first semester, and I had already lost a lot of
weight. And I put more emphasis on this than I did
trying to learn maybe the table of the chemistry.
But I went over. Finally, somebody sent me to Mr.
Gay in the YMCA. I went in and told Mr. Gay I have this
problem. And it's really bothering me. And so he
just picks up the phone, dials down the hall. He
wants to talk to Earl Rutter, who was the vice
president, come in to be vice president that year.
And all I could think was, oh, my God, those
pissheads are going to kill me, General Rutter,
you know. And all Mr. Gay asked him was that
question, which class. He could not remember,
didn't know. And he said, well, call Lupo. Well,
Mr. Gay then called Mr. Lou, and Mr. Lou said class
30. which if you check the course center or you
check downstairs here in the former students,
you'll see a class of 30 with a stone. I found out
later little trivia about that that the the class
of 30 had the option and some of them got the stone
and some of them got the regular Aggie ring for that
year caused a big big friction with their class and
that was the last year that that they did it I
remember one time and I again, being associated
with A&M and wearing a uniform for so long as I did up
until 97 when I came over to the former students,
you would meet a lot of people. And a lot of these
people were very distinguished former students.
But when they came back to your environment of the
military, they wanted to live their military days
again and talk about their experiences. And I can
remember Mr. Hal Booty here one time. And we got to
talking about that ring. He got out the yearbook,
which the 1930 yearbook is the most outstanding
yearbook probably ever done because they were so
far ahead, or he was so far ahead of his times with
landing crafts out on the Pacific and
aviation-type units or aircraft that just go on
and on and on. Even the cover where the one year from
1930, they had a covered wagon on the cover and That
year they had a city, and it was skyscrapers with
lights on one side, and you'd go over to, I mean, the
daytime on the other side, it would be at night, but
you're familiar with that, I can tell. But
once we opened the Court Center, and I had talked to
Randy Mattson about the possibility of us having
another ring case over there, and he and Mr.
Williford was the president at that time, agreed
to that. And I got the Mothers Club from Houston to
fund the case. little sidelight on that we have a
beautiful quilt there that the dallas mothers
club did on traditions and it is just just really
tremendous of the different traditions that
patterns sewn in and and my sister did the army rotc
one because her son was down here as a freshman that
year but the houston mothers club jumped me out one
time because i had a plaque there It said the Dallas
A&M Mothers Club, and they didn't have anything in
the core center. So the next thing I did was talk to
the Houston Mothers Club and said, okay, we can
have this ring case, and for $6,000 we can put your
name on it. They jumped on it, and where I'm leading
up to now is one day we have a ring that comes in
that's got a stone in it that says 1929. which
nothing tracked on this. And found out that we
checked to see that the gentleman that came in was a
transfer student or referred to as a frog. And he
laid out a semester. So he graduated with 30, but he
was actually class 29. So when he ordered his ring,
instead of 30, they put the 29 on. And that's also
over in the core center.
I guess I've gotten off the subject a little bit
from your question, but back to the Cush question.
Were there some that had no answer? Oh, yes. Well, I
went back that night with the answer, Fish
Henderson.
Yes, sir. What class had the stone in their ring?
Mr. whoever it was, Fish Henderson requested
permission to make a statement, sir. I said yes and
said, the class of 1930, sir. And to this day, I can
remember his reply. That is correct, Fish
Henderson. Now for the second half of your
question. So yes, I didn't eat many calories that
year, but it was not Whether you got the question or
not, or right, or the cush or anything, it became a
little mind game with the upper class. You didn't
want them to get over on you. You wanted to be a sharp
freshman. Sure, you had to memorize certain
things. I can tell you today, Alison Crooks Yates,
first 13th last names on the Westgate Memorial,
you know, and recognition, funded
participation, agricultural, mechanical.
Those kind of things I remember. the monuments,
you know. I'm still probably the keeper of
monuments or things dealing with the military.
Anybody has a question, they seem to come to me
instead of archives. But the point is, questions
we had, some of them were fair, some of them came out
of Lupo's little book. Since the standard now
lists the questions you're supposed to know,
because we were required to know all of the
athletes, their hometown, you know, supposed to
know what they're majoring in. And then we had the
unwritten rule of court trips, you go to the game.
Period. You better go to the game. Lord help you if
you got back and you couldn't answer Monday
morning which end of the stadium the Aggies came
out of. Did you and your buddies do any tricks, play
any games at the dining hall table? Only, the best I
can remember, we only did them when directed by
another upperclassman. And a junior might have us
do something to a junior. And the way it would
normally happen is the seniors would leave the
dining hall first. And then the juniors would
leave. The sophomores, you might have a horse's
tail that'd stay around, a rashy, you know. But
most of the time, the games were played, you were
directed, just like in the dorm, directed to play
them against another upper class. So that y'all
very seldom used to... No, we didn't do any
pull-outs there in the mess halls because you paid
the price if you did, you know. In hindsight, how
would you describe the quality of dining hall food
at A&M in your undergraduate years? Well, I
remember the cold cuts on Sunday. I can remember
that very well. You know, Sunday night was a junior
privilege to yell anything on the campus, you
know. And I can remember the cold cuts on Sunday
night, and I can remember somebody yelling out the
window about, eight or nine o'clock and you could
hear it all down the quad i hate this blankety blank
place you know somebody just come back now most of
my friends uh people i associate we hung around
here on the weekends didn't go anywhere And we'd go
to DeWare Field House and usually play basketball
or something at Saturday night, 2, 3 in the
morning. And I've set this tone that, thank
goodness, both of my kids have done extremely well
academically. I'll give my wife credit for that.
But I was, again, involved. If I had any free time,
it was usually dealing with sports. But did you not
think the food was good? I thought the food was
excellent. I mean, I really did. Pardon me, except
the cold cuts on Sunday night. I thought one of the
things I liked about it, though, was after the
sophomores left, you could millhound. You could
go around and take anything off any of the tables.
And if there was something you really liked, you'd
just go get it. Because we ate family style. You'd
pick up the bowl. And that was a freshman
privilege, to stay and eat. Unless you really had a
problem, and the only problem we had was during
football season when we'd have a yell practice in
the Grove. And after the second announcement, we
all had to yell like hell and scream, hold your
hands over your head and run out of there and run all
the way to the Grove, you know, for yell practice so
you could get chewed out and stand in detention
some more. But I always looked at it, everybody
else having to do it. Did you have a favorite main
course or a favorite dessert? Well, most of the
time you didn't have dessert. You know, you just,
now we did, you could get dessert. We had
competition on march-ins. Once a week or so they
would, or maybe once every two weeks, we'd have
judges or graders, as they're referred to then,
and pick the outstanding outfits. So we might vote
I mean, so we might bet with the medical company
upstairs that we're going to do higher than they
do, and then if we did, we got double cush, we'd get
their cush, and then usually freshmen could have a
cush. We also had the inspections and formation,
and the sharpest guy, if you were ever the sharpest
guy, you might get a bag in or some kind of extra
privilege, and your entire squad would get it. And
so I remember one time when... We had a guy named
Gerald Sullivan from Galveston, and we were going
to, he was small, slender, and so we lived on the
fourth floor, and his uniform was starched just
like a razor blade. Mike Shively was the best at fit
shining shoes. He shined his shoes. Johnny
Sullivan and I and our squad, we helped him down the
stairs so he never did break that crease. And we had
him out there, and we worked hard on this. This was
important. This was a big deal. And that night, our
squad won the privilege. But we still laugh at this
today because Robert Davidson didn't win, but
Johnny Sullivan, his hometown buddy from
Galveston, won. And we lost a little faith in the
system after that. uh let's see uh jokes pranks
good bull yeah there's a lot of a lot of that went on
of course uh a lot of uh things we do the drowned outs
and and i know that a lot of people probably told you
about the drowned outs you know a real uh probably
the start of my military experience would be uh uh
the dorm across the way if uh if uh you were going to
uh uh float it out as we'd say uh on top of the toilets
of course the little piece of metal we referred to
as the head you could take that off but but you had to
be in sync with whoever got in the steam tunnels and
cut the water off so we would say at two o'clock in
the morning Nothing ever went at 2 o'clock in the
morning. It'd be 2.07. You'd cut the water off in
the steam tunnels. The six cadets or eight or
whatever was up there with their pipe wrenches
with a hand towel of some sort so you didn't make any
noise at all. You'd take those heads off, and you'd
have six, seven minutes to get out of the dorm. And
it would normally be the fourth floor because
water would go down four stories. And then the
freshmen would be out of there, out of the dorm,
because if, number one, if they came out and the
water started, then it made it a little easier to
track. And so then you'd, of course, try to be back
in your dorm sound asleep when the bulls or the or
the cadet officer of the day, or whoever. And
usually somebody would have seen a freshman
running in a dorm. You never could win. It was one of
those games that was played. Most of the time,
though, you're doing anything was because some
upperclassmen had something coming. And the old
M-80s or cherry bombs wrapped in a Babbo can.
Another little military move, of course, would
be, and I know you've heard this a zillion times,
but is to one freshman would open the door. Another
one would pitch the, would light the firecracker,
a babbo wrapped up with the M-80 fuse sticking out
and pitch it in there. And then the next one,
because you had that delay, the next one would take
a trash can. Of course, I always had different
names for everything. And then you'd pitch the
water on the one or two guys in the bunk. and then and
then you'd pull the door to in the end of a coke case
you'd put that stick on the door and you'd slide her
down where there's no way that door is going to open
back in and you'd be long gone and but for some
reason they could usually figure out who did it if
you didn't if they didn't all the freshmen are
going to stay up shining floors doing something
but i will tell you that upperclassman's room was
very very clean but when the sun came up you know But
there were lots of pranks. I remember we had one guy
who was a wildlife major and he had the bird nest out
there on his balcony and it's amazing how you could
let another freshman in the middle of the night
from the window up above put ropes on them and Put
them down there and you can imagine what ended up in
his little bird house there. Just little
off-the-wall things like that, you know. But
nothing what I'd call criminal or really. Where
was the entry place for the steam tunnels over in
the Dunkin' Dining Hall area? I don't know about
the Dunkin' Dining. Oh, but in our dorms, as you
came in the two dorms in the middle of the dorm, the
two doors, excuse me, right there, there was a door
going down just like stairs going down into the
basement. In every dorm? Mm-hmm. Oh. Yeah. And
same thing over in the
old area where I lived the last three years. And
steam tunnels, it is sad because so many kids have
gotten in trouble today over going down there. And
now the police have every kind of warning device.
And when you come out, you're going downtown. This
is an offense. All right. In your student days,
let's make believe that you go down the steam
tunnel in the Duncan area. Mm-hmm. How far under
the campus could you or anybody else who knew the
routine travel? I can remember just going all
through the area. You could get up to Duncan and
there'd be bars on there with a padlock, the bars
being on some type of gate that would swing open. So
they had areas going into certain places blocked
off, but you could actually go into steam tunnels
and get over to other dorms as well as. But if you
were doing a float out or something, you know, most
of those guys that's going to turn that water on,
They're going to, they could go that route, but
most of the time you're probably going to come back
up those stairs and go out that way. But could you
have gone? All over the campus. Really? But now
there is, and I haven't been down there, but I've
read a couple of articles about the graffiti and
everything that came along later. I don't
remember the graffiti, even though I spent a
little bit of time in them. What did... people in
your day used to light their way a cigarette
lighter? Flashlights. We had flashlights. Oh,
I'm sorry. Okay. And describe the dimensions of
the steam tower. They were not very big. I mean,
there were some places, of course, you could stand
up and walk, but there's other places that was
pretty tight, and then pipes running through
there. How wide? You know, it's amazing how
everything was bigger back then in your memory,
but it seems like it was about four feet wide is
about what I remember. Do you remember, and you
were talking about good bull and pranks, do you
remember any in class?